	1	Introduction
	1	Refer students to syllabus on BB
	2	Read the introduction (1.2), section 1.3 on how the online course notes can be used, section 1.4 about the two versions of this course, section 1.5 on communication with the lecturers and 1.6 on software.
	2	Chapter 2: Linear Regression
	1	Watch movie 2a (covers Example + what is a regression model) We start from an example in which we want to investigate how the height of a son depends on the height of his father. We use this example to introduce you to the concept of regression models. We start from a very general formulation of regression models, and by gradually introducing assumptions, we move towards the formulation of a linear regression model. It is extremely important to understand that regression models are about the mean outcome, more specifically the conditional mean of the outcome, given the regressor E(Y \mid x).
	2	Watch movie 2b (section 2.1). This movie explains how simulations can be used for exploring theoretical aspects of statistical models (and later such simulations will also be used for empirically demonstrating theoretical properties of statistical methods).
	3	Watch movie 2c (section 2.2): Here you learn how the parameters of a linear regression model can be estimated by means of the method of least squares. This method is best introduced by making use of matrix notation and so this section also introduces the matrix notation for the linear model. The advantage is that with matrix notation, the results of this section are also valid for the more complicated linear models that will be seen in later chapters. The LSE of \beta has a simple expression in terms of the design matrix X. Also the variance of the LSE estimator of \beta has a simple expression in terms of X.
	4	Watch movie 2d (example of section 2.2)
	5	Make the exercise (blood pressure) yourself. The solution is also in the course notes. It is important that you know how to do this analysis in R (and SAS) and how to interpret the numerical values of the parameter estimates \hat\beta_0 and \hat\beta_1. Note that the final conclusion of a data analysis is always formulated using the terminology from the application, i.e. a statistician must be able to explain the conclusions to the scientist/client.
	6	Section 2.3 is about the properties of the least squares estimator. It is important to realise that the LSE \hat\beta is a random variable (we start from randomly sampled data and since the LSE is a function of the data, the LSE is also a random variable). The distribution of \hat\beta is referred to as the sampling distribution. These properties are very, very important. It is thanks to these theoretical properties that we know that the LSE is a good estimator to be used in real data analysis. The properties are in the first place expressed in mathematical language/notation, but we will also give an interpretation in terms of repeated sampling. It is very important that you understand the concept of repeated sampling. It will be very often used throughout the course and it gives the so-called frequentist interpretation of statistical analyses (in contrast to the Bayesian interpretation that you will learn in other courses).
	1	Watch movie 2e about the mean and variance of the LSE (Section 2.3.1). Here you learn that the LSE is unbiased and that its variance is a measure for imprecision.
	2	Make the exercise at the end of Section 2.3.1. You are asked to setup a simulation study for empirically confirming the unbiasedness of the LSE and confirm the expression of the variance. Make sure that you understand the simulation study very well. It gives you a realistic and practically relevant interpretation of concepts as the mean and the variance. Later simulation studies make use of the same concepts and algorithm.
	3	Watch movie 2f (Section 2.3.2). Here we demonstrate that the LSE \hat\beta is the Best Linear Unbiased Estimator (BLUE). It is a so-called optimality property and forms a central argument to advice data analysts to use the LSE for estimating parameters in linear models (i.e. there are other types of estimators, but in terms of bias and variance, the LSE is the best).
	4	Make the exercise at the end of Section 2.3.2. (again a simulation study)
	5	Watch movie 2g about Section 2.3.3. Whereas in the previous two sections only the mean and the variance of the LSE \hat\beta was studied, we study here the sampling distribution of the estimator. However, this is only possible if we assume a particular distribution for the error term \varepsilon (or, equivalently, we assume a particular distribution for the conditional distribution of Y, given x). Note that mean and variance of \hat\beta do not require such distributional assumption (i.e. they can be studied in the semiparametric model), but for finding the sampling distribution of \hat\beta we need a distributional assumption (making the model a parametric model). The reason why we can only find the distribution of \hat\beta if the (conditional) distribution of Y is know is simple: \hat\beta is a function of Y and hence the distribution of the estimator is governed by the distribution of the data. You learn that \hat\beta has a normal distribution (if \varepsilon is normal); see Theorem 2.4. Theorem 2.5 gives the asymptotic sampling distribution. This theorem basically says that in large samples the LSE is approximately normally distributed, even without the normality assumption (i.e. in the semiparametric model). Why are we interested in the sampling distribution? Well, it is needed for the construction of confidence intervals (CI) and hypothesis tests. Here is one way of looking at it: CIs and hypothesis tests come with probabilistic expressions (e.g. a confidence level of 95%, and a significance level of 5%). Probabilities can be derived from distributions; in our case we will need the sampling distribution of the estimator.
	6	Section 2.3.4: you do not have to learn this section, but it may be interesting to read it if you are familiar with maximum likelihood estimation (which is introduced in the course Concepts of Probability and Statistics).
	7	The previous section focused on the estimation of the \beta-parameters in the model. There is one more model parameter that needs to be estimated: the residual variance \sigma^2. That is the topic of Section 2.4. Watch movie 2h. You will learn that the minimised least squares criterion (SSE) divided by n-2 is an unbiased estimator of \sigma^2, even in the semiparametric model: \text{MSE}/(n-2) = \hat\sigma^2. If also normality is assumed, Theorem 2.7 tells us that the sampling distribution of \hat\sigma^2 is related to a chi-squared distribution. We will need this result later for the construction of confidence intervals and hypothesis tests about the \beta-parameters.
	8	Make the exercise at the end of Section 2.4. It is again a simulation study.
	9	Watch movie 2i on Section 2.5. It's a very short and easy section, though not less important; perhaps it is enough to read through this section instead of watching the video. Here the sampling distribution of the standardised and studentised parameter estimators are derived. The former makes use of the true variance of the estimator, and the latter makes use of the estimated variance (involving MSE). It's this studentised estimator that will form the basis of confidence intervals and hypothesis tests. Also note the distinction between small sample results for which the normality assumption is required, and the large sample results (asymptotic) which also holds in the semiparametric model.
	10	Watch movie 2j about Section 2.6. Here the confidence intervals of the \beta-parameters are developed, starting from the studentised estimators. The mathematical development is very straightforward. It is particularly important to understand the repeated sampling interpretation of a confidence interval; this interpretation is best understood by looking at the simulation studies in this section.
	11	Make the exercise at the end of Section 2.6
	12	Watch video 2k about section 2.7. Again starting from the studentised estimator we develop hypothesis tests related to a single \beta-parameter. I start here from the assumption that you are familiar with the concept of hypothesis tests (null and alternative hypothesis, null distribution, one-sided and two-sided tests, p-values). If not, then I suggest to first study the relevant parts of the course Concepts of Probability and Statistics. It is important that you can formulate the conclusions of a hypothesis test very precisely, keeping in mind that (1) a non-significant result does not prove that the null hypothesis is true (non-significance = inconclusive = insufficient evidence that the opposite is true); (2) the p-value gives information about the strength of the conclusion. I also want to stress that hypothesis tests form only one tool in the statistician's toolbox! Parameter estimation in combination with confidence intervals are often more informative.
	13	Make the 3 exercises at the end of Section 2.7.
	14	Read Section 2.8 (there is no video recording available). It is an easy section in which via an example it is demonstrated how assumptions can be assessed. Although the methods are very simple, experience tells us that many students find it difficult, because it involves interpretation of plots (e.g. residual plots and normal QQ-plots) and this is often subjective.
	15	Make the exercise at the end of the section.
	16	Watch video 2l about section 2.9. In this section you learn how a dummy variable can be defined and used as a regressor so that the regression model can be used for statistical inference for the comparison of two groups (e.g. two treatments). The t-test for testing H_0: \beta_1=0 in this model, is equivalent to the two-sample t-test! In later sections (Chapter 5) dummies will be used for the formulation of ANOVA models as regression models.
	17	Make the exercise at the end of Section 2.9.
	18	Watch video 2i about Section 2.10. Here you learn the very basics of Causal Inference, which is a rather modern topic in statistical science. It aims to estimate effect size parameters that have a causal interpretation. Studying causality is made possible through the introduction of the concept of counterfactuals or potential outcomes (Section 2.10.2). In randomised studies (Section 2.10.3) it is very straightforward to estimate causal effect sizes; it becomes much less simple when we move to observational studies (this will be the topic of Section 4.1).
	19	Watch video 2j on Section 2.11. This section focuses on the estimation of the conditional mean E(Y\mid x), i.e. for a give value of the regressor, say x, what is the estimate of the average outcome. This estimate is of course the corresponding point on the fitted regression line. You also learn how to construct a 95% confidence interval for this conditional mean.
	20	Watch video 2l on Section 2.12. Here we look for a prediction of the outcome Y for a given value of the regressor (predictor) x. You will learn that this numerically equivalent to the estimate of E(Y\mid x), but it has another interpretation, and it comes with another interval: the prediction interval, which is conceptually different from the confidence interval of E(Y\mid x). This is very important to see.
	21	Make the exercise at the end of Section 2.12.
	22	Watch video 2m on Section 2.13. In this section we see how SSTot can be decomposed into SSR and SSE, i.e. SSTot = SSR + SSE. This tells us that the total observed variability in the outcome variable is composed of variability that can be explained by the regression relationship (SSR) and unexplained variability (SSE). You also learn about the coefficient of determination, R^2. It's important to understand that R^2 should not be over-interpreted.
	23	Make the exercise at the end of Section 2.13. This exercise serves to make you understand that R^2 should not be over-interpreted.
